[Music]
good morning and welcome to breakfast
with dan walker and louise minchin
headlines for you at six o'clock this
morning the prime minister says he's
deeply concerned about footage of police
officers breaking up the vigil on
clapham
common held in memory of sarah everard
boris johnson will chair a crime and
justice summit today following strong
criticism of the metropolitan police its
head dame cressita dick insists she
won't
resign what has happened
makes me more determined not less
to lead my organisation it's back to
school for more pupils in scotland today
as lockdown restrictions are eased while
wales becomes the first part in the uk
where you can get a haircut
a whole year of working from home good
morning what have we learned
what will stick and what are your rights
if and when the boss
asks you to come back in i'll have the
advice
we have a contender for goal of the
season have a look at this
eric lamela's incredible strike fires
tottenham into the lead against arsenal
but spurs go on to lose the game 2-1
and after the stormy conditions of last
week much quieter this week thankfully
there will be some rain at times but
most of the time it will be dry i'll
have the full forecast here on breakfast
so it's a monday the 15th of march top
story for you this morning is that the
prime minister will chair a meeting
today at the government's crime and
justice task force after saying he is
deeply concerned about the way police
handle a vigil
in memory of sarah everard the prime
minister said every part of the criminal
justice system needed to work to protect
and defend women and girls among those
attending today's summit will be the
metropolitan police commissioner
dame crested dick who's resisted calls
to resign
in the wake of the events on clapham
common we should say that this report
from simon jones does contain some
flashing images
[Applause]
they are scenes that have shocked and
brought shame on the metropolitan police
according to some politicians and
protesters women who'd gathered to mark
the life of sarah everard at an
unauthorized vigil at clapham common
taken away in handcuffs for breaching
coronavirus restrictions
it's led to calls for the metropolitan
police commissioner to resign
but she says she's going nowhere and has
defended her officers
are you considering your position no i'm
not
they have to make these really difficult
calls
and i don't think anybody should be
sitting back in an armchair
and saying well that was done badly or i
would have done it differently without
actually understanding
what they was going through their minds
but the prime minister has now joined
the debate
in a statement boris johnson says like
everyone who saw it i was deeply
concerned about the footage from clapham
common on saturday night
i have spoken with the metropolitan
police commissioner who has committed to
reviewing how this was handled
the metropolitan police commissioner
will today attend a meeting of the
government's crime and justice task
force
it will be chaired by the prime minister
he says the death of sarah everard must
lead to a determination to drive out
violence against women and girls
and make every part of the criminal
justice system work to protect them
[Music]
[Applause]
there have been further protests around
westminster on this occasion the police
did not intervene
but a senior officer accused some of
turning up not to remember sarah
everard's life
but simply to hurl abuse at officers one
human rights group though
says the police have yet to explain
properly their actions on saturday night
i think that the police they they chose
actions that were aggressive
they chose actions that were distressing
they caused chaos and ultimately they
created the public health risk
and this is all the more sort of
disgusting when you consider that
people were here to protest the fact
that they are unsafe in public space
that women are unsafe
the metropolitan police were already
being investigated for events around the
sarah everard murder inquiry
but now those investigations will go
further examining how they've responded
to the huge outpouring of public emotion
since her death simon jones bbc news
well simon jones simon just now joins us
from clapham common simon morning to you
more than 24 hours on and there's
there's a lot of pressure on the
met police this morning isn't it
yes and one senior officer has said they
met need to rebuild
trust with the public and you get a
sense here of just how much the public
has been affected by the death of sarah
everard look at all these flowers here
yesterday there was a steady stream of
people arriving with bouquets
some of them were in tears they stopped
for a quiet moment of contemplation
they didn't know sarah everard but they
have been so touched by what happened to
her
but as well as the bouquets dotted
around here are a number of placards
criticizing the police and particularly
their response to that
unofficial vigil here on saturday
evening now boris johnson has expressed
his concern the home secretary has
expressed her concern
along with the labour leader and also
the mayor of london but to try to defuse
some of that
the commissioner faced the cameras
yesterday and she said at times
policing during the coronavirus pandemic
is fiendishly difficult
meaning difficult decisions have to be
made so it was when the crowd got
large on saturday evening and the police
felt that it was getting too dangerous
in terms of a lack of social distancing
the officers asked people to go and they
said when some refused that's when they
started to make arrests
now the government too recognizes the
scale of this they have ordered an
independent inquiry into the policing
and also that meeting today
of the crime and justice task force and
that is going to look at what can be
done
to make people feel safer and the recent
survey
opened by the home office on friday has
already received
50 000 responses simon thank you for
that update and that's um
a subject we'll be looking at throughout
the morning for you be speaking to the
policing minister kit malt house at 7 30
this morning
a three billion pound plan which would
include hundreds of miles of new bus
lanes and more frequent services has
been promised for england
the government strategy aims to make
buses cheaper greener and easier to use
but there are concerns the money won't
be available quickly enough
and that recent cuts to some routes
won't be reversed our transport
correspondent caroline davis has more
buses can be better that's the message
from the government today
who set out a list they want to see
simpler bus fares
more services contactless payments more
bus lanes
and 4 000 electric and hydrogen buses
and they have 3 billion pounds to make
it happen
councils and bus companies will need to
work together to create a legally
binding plan
that includes introducing these ideas in
order to get
some of that money it's a long wish list
some passenger groups are pleased
but want to know how it's going to work
the objectives the government set out
are hugely welcome but we want to see
how they're actually going to pay for
these
and how they're going to make sure that
the increased services they promise
will actually happen on the ground but
um i'd only be cherished in any way this
is a very good document
some of the measures like new bus lanes
are likely to be unpopular with
motorists
unite which represents 70 000 bus
workers
are worried that the strategy doesn't
say anything about drivers pay and
conditions
and it's concerned that the money
promised won't be available soon enough
labour has said that this plan offers
nothing to reverse lost bus routes over
the years
while most of us might not be stepping
on board for now the government hopes
that these ideas will persuade more of
us
to take the bus caroline davis bbc news
all secondary school pupils in scotland
will return to the classroom part-time
from today
in the latest easing of restrictions
meanwhile all primary school children
who are not already back will restart
face-to-face learning
is expected all pupils will return to
school full-time after
easter the scottish governments defended
the move after the teaching union the
eis
said teachers were exhausted
hairdressers and barbers in wales are
reopening this morning the first part of
the uk to relax the rules for those
wanting a trim
all salons shut there on the 28th of
december following a rise in coronavirus
cases
welsh primary schools will also welcome
back children
today after some year groups returned
three weeks ago all children come back
from today
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news